feat: add mfa (phone) docs (#28457)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/auth/auth-mfa/phone.mdx

---
id: 'auth-mfa-phone'

> title: 'Multi-Factor Authentiction (Phone)'

Author: ```suggestion
title: 'Multi-Factor Authentication (Phone)'
```

---
id: 'auth-mfa-phone'
title: 'Multi-Factor Authentication (Phone)'

> description: 'Add an additional layer of security with phone multi-factor-authentication.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Add an additional layer of security with phone (SMS or WhatsApp) multi-factor-authentication.'
```

---

## How does phone multi-factor-authentication?

Phone multi-factor authentication involves a shared code generated by Supabase Auth and the end user. The code is delivered via a messaging channel, such as SMS or WhatsApp, and the user uses the code to authenticate to Supabase Auth.

> The phone messaging configuration for MFA is shared with [phone auth login](/docs/guides/auth/phone-login). The same provider configuration that is used for phone login is used for MFA. At this time we support the use of Twilio Programmable Messaging and Vonage. Use the [Send SMS Hook](/docs/guides/auth/auth-hooks/send-sms-hook) if you need to use an MFA (Phone) messaging provider different from what is used in the Phone provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The phone messaging configuration for MFA is shared with [phone auth login](/docs/guides/auth/phone-login). The same provider configuration that is used for phone login is used for MFA. You can also use the [Send SMS Hook](/docs/guides/auth/auth-hooks/send-sms-hook) if you need to use an MFA (Phone) messaging provider different from what is supported natively.
```

      />
      {!challengeId ? (
        <input type="button" value="Start Challenge" onClick={startChallenge} />
      ) : (
        <input type="button" value="Verify Code" onClick={verifyCode} />
      )}
    </>
  )
}
```

- You can extract the available MFA factors for the user by calling
  `supabase.auth.mfa.listFactors()`. Don't worry this method is also very quick
  and rarely uses the network.
- If `listFactors()` returns more than one factor (or of a different type) you
  should present the user with a choice. For simplicity this is not shown in
  the example.
- Phone numbers are unique per user. Users can only have one verified phone factor with a given phone number.
  Attempting to enroll a new phone factor alongside an existing verified factor with the same number will result in an error.
- Each time the user presses the "Submit" button a new challenge is created for
  the chosen factor (in this case the first one)
- On successful verification, the client library will refresh the session in
  the background automatically and finally call the `onSuccess` callback, which
  will show the authenticated `App` component on screen.

> ### Security Configuration

Reviewer: Add a note about SIM-swap attacks here.

> In Supabase Auth, each code has a default validity of `300s` and successive codes remain valid until expiry. For added security, we recommend increasing the OTP Length under `Settings > Authentication > Advanced MFA`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each code is valid for up to 5 minutes, after which a new one can be sent. Successive codes remain valid until expiry. When possible choose the longest code length acceptable to your use case, at a minimum of 6. This can be configured in the [Authentication Settings](/dashboard/project/_/settings/auth).
```

> As a reminder, the MFA (Phone) and the phone login provider have distinct Enable and Disable toggles. You will need to disable both the MFA (Phone) and the phone provider if wish to disable all phone related services.

Reviewer: Would remove this line.

```suggestion
```

---
id: 'auth-mfa-phone'
title: 'Multi-Factor Authentication (Phone)'

> description: 'Add an additional layer of security with phone multi-factor-authentication.'

Author: The description is generic but not usre of a better name

   steps 2 and 3.

#### Example: React

Below is an example that creates a new `EnrollMFA` component that illustrates the important pieces of the MFA enrollment flow.

- When the component appears on screen, the `supabase.auth.mfa.enroll()` API is
  called once to start the process of enrolling a new factor for the current
  user.
- A challenge is created using the `supabase.auth.mfa.challenge()` API and the
  code from the user is submitted for verification using the
  `supabase.auth.mfa.verify()` challenge.
- `onEnabled` is a callback that notifies the other components that enrollment
  has completed.
- `onCancelled` is a callback that notifies the other components that the user
  has clicked the `Cancel` button.

```tsx
export function EnrollMFA({
  onEnrolled,
  onCancelled,
}: {
  onEnrolled: () => void
  onCancelled: () => void
}) {
  const [phoneNumber, setPhoneNumber] = useState('')
  const [factorId, setFactorId] = useState('')
  const [verifyCode, setVerifyCode] = useState('')
  const [error, setError] = useState('')
  const [challengeId, setChallengeId] = useState('')

  const onEnableClicked = () => {

>     // Enroll and Challenge

Author: ```suggestion
```

    setError('')
    ;(async () => {
      const verify = await auth.mfa.verify({
        factorId,
        challengeId,
        code: verifyCode,
      })
      if (verify.error) {
        setError(verify.error.message)
        throw verify.error
      }

      onEnrolled()
    })()
  }
  const onEnrollClicked = async () => {
    setError('')
    try {
      const factor = await auth.mfa.enroll({
        phone: phoneNumber,
        factorType: 'phone',

>         // Please replace this with a friendly name of choice

Author: ```suggestion
```

  const [factorId, setFactorId] = useState('')
  const [challengeId, setChallengeId] = useState('')
  const [phoneNumber, setPhoneNumber] = useState('')

  const startChallenge = async () => {
    setError('')
    try {
      const factors = await supabase.auth.mfa.listFactors()
      if (factors.error) {
        throw factors.error
      }

      const phoneFactor = factors.data.phone[0]

      if (!phoneFactor) {
        throw new Error('No phone factors found!')
      }

      const factorId = phoneFactor.id
      setFactorId(factorId)
      setPhoneNumber(phoneFactor.phone)

      const challenge = await supabase.auth.mfa.challenge({ factorId })
      if (challenge.error) {
        setError(challenge.error.message)
        throw challenge.error
      }

      setChallengeId(challenge.data.id)
    } catch (error) {
      setError(error.message)
    }
  }

  const verifyCode = async () => {
    setError('')
    try {
      const verify = await supabase.auth.mfa.verify({
        factorId,
        challengeId,
        code: verifyCode,
      })
      if (verify.error) {
        setError(verify.error.message)
        throw verify.error
      }

>       // Success handling here

Author: ```suggestion
```

      />
      {!challengeId ? (
        <input type="button" value="Start Challenge" onClick={startChallenge} />
      ) : (
        <input type="button" value="Verify Code" onClick={verifyCode} />
      )}
    </>
  )
}
```

- You can extract the available MFA factors for the user by calling
  `supabase.auth.mfa.listFactors()`. Don't worry this method is also very quick
  and rarely uses the network.
- If `listFactors()` returns more than one factor (or of a different type) you
  should present the user with a choice. For simplicity this is not shown in
  the example.
- Phone numbers are unique per user. Users can only have one verified phone factor with a given phone number.
  Attempting to enroll a new phone factor alongside an existing verified factor with the same number will result in an error.
- Each time the user presses the "Submit" button a new challenge is created for
  the chosen factor (in this case the first one)
- On successful verification, the client library will refresh the session in
  the background automatically and finally call the `onSuccess` callback, which
  will show the authenticated `App` component on screen.

### Security Configuration

> In Supabase Auth, each code has a default validity of `300s` and successive codes remain valid until expiry. For added security, we recommend increasing the OTP Length under `Settings > Authentication > Advanced MFA`.

Author: Considered asking them to reach out to support for configure if needed but figured they'd probably do so if they really needed.

I'm guessing at some point we'll convert this into a dedicated config distinct from TOTP and make this configurable
